[DOCS-14615] Metric Name Pricing: Product Experience Guide (#37209)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/guide/metric_name_pricing_experience.md

---
title: Metrics Experience Changes for Metric Name Pricing
description: "Learn how the custom metrics experience in Datadog has been updated to reflect Metric Name Pricing, including changes to the Manage Tags modal, Metric side panel, Volume Management page, Plan & Usage page, and estimated usage metrics."
further_reading:

> - link: "/account_management/billing/metric_name_pricing/"

Reviewer: Noting 404 currently on this link, for merge timing purposes

Author: Confirmed — this link points to the companion billing page (PR #36668), which hasn't merged yet. It'll resolve once that PR merges before or alongside this one.

## Volume Management page

The Volume Overview graphs on the [Metrics Volume Management page][4] display the following Metric Name Pricing billing dimensions:

- Estimated unique metric names
- Billable indexed point volume
- Ingested-to-indexed points ratio

{{< img src="metrics/guide/metric_name_pricing_experience/volume-overview-graphs.png" alt="Three Volume Overview graphs for Metric Name Pricing: Estimated Unique Metric Names (count of metrics with more than 100 indexed points month-to-date), Estimated Total Points (total indexed points exceeding the 10M per-metric allotment month-to-date), and Estimated Ingested to Indexed Points Ratio." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Plan & Usage page

The [Plan & Usage page][5] reflects the Metric Name Pricing billing breakdown for organizations on the new model.

## Estimated usage metrics

Datadog provides estimated usage metrics so you can monitor your Metric Name Pricing usage in real time. Use these metrics to set up monitors and dashboards for cost visibility.

> <div class="alert alert-warning">Cardinality-based estimated usage metrics (<code>datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom</code> and related metrics) are no longer available for organizations on Metric Name Pricing. Any monitors, dashboards, or other assets that use the cardinality-based metrics stop receiving data. Use the points-volume metrics listed below instead.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">Cardinality-based estimated usage metrics (<code>datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.custom</code> and related metrics) are no longer available for organizations on Metric Name Pricing. Any monitors, dashboards, or other assets that use the cardinality-based metrics have stopped receiving data. Use the points-volume metrics listed below instead.</div>
```

Author: Applied in cb34f4a7e0

For more granular analysis, use the following real-time and hourly metrics:

| Metric | What it represents |
|--------|-------------------|
| `datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.points.indexed` | Estimated indexed custom metric points over a rolling 60-minute window. |
| `datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.points.indexed.by_tag` | Estimated indexed custom metric points over a rolling 60-minute window, broken down by usage attribution tags. |
| `datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.points.indexed.hourly` | Estimated total indexed custom metric points submitted each hour, for cumulative month-to-date calculations. |
| `datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.points.ingested` | Estimated ingested custom metric points over a rolling 60-minute window. |
| `datadog.estimated_usage.metrics.points.ingested.hourly` | Estimated total ingested custom metric points submitted each hour, for cumulative month-to-date calculations. |

For more information, see [Estimated Usage Metrics][6].

## Troubleshooting

For technical questions, contact [Datadog support][7].

For billing questions, contact your [Customer Success][8] Manager.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: /account_management/billing/metric_name_pricing/

Reviewer: 404, verify link availability before merging

Author: Confirmed — this link points to the companion billing page (PR #36668), which hasn't merged yet. It'll resolve once that PR merges before or alongside this one.

For more information, see [Estimated Usage Metrics][6].

## Managing your metric usage

> To reduce your usage under Metric Name Pricing, use the following tools:

Reviewer: Gut-checking here that we're comfortable definitively stating an outcome (that usage will be reduced) through these tools/actions. It does look like these will almost certainly result in reduced usage, but (especially with billing-related matters) just wanted to flag.

Reviewer 2: that's a good point, could we change it to "to optimize your usage" instead?

Author: Updated in [a7b033b](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/37209/commits/a7b033b40b167ac9e45540b4b742955c861d71da)
